hello and welcome to emil altshuler calm
in today's lesson on how to hold the bow
first and foremost I'd like to say that
there's not one way to hold the bow go
on youtube and study the great masters
like heifetz milstein Perlman oistrakh
etc and you'll notice that no two
violinists hold above exactly the same
way and this is because no two
violinists have the exact same body and
the exact same hands on each of you have
to find your own low grip which is most
comfortable to you and which achieved
your own ideal sound and expression in
music but just to give you a few ideas
I'd like to start you off with this
first try making a circle between your
thumb and your middle finger and make
sure that it's always flexible like this
secondly place the thumb and wedge it
diagonally onto the stick opposite the
middle finger as you can see I hold it
right there on the leather grip where
it's worn away I do that diagonally
because I don't want to poke all the way
through with the thumb locking it into
place and I don't really want it on just
the side of the stick so as to not have
the bow fall on my hands but if I had to
choose one or the other I would choose
the loser grip in all cases because you
want the least amount of tension most
around amount of relaxation in your body
at all times when
that will create the largest sound and
give you the most facility while playing
the other reason is that you need to be
able to angle the bow differently at
different points in the music for
example if you want to play a date Tasha
a stroke you'll want flat hair trying to
get the most sound on the instrument so
in this case you would keep the boat
perpendicular to the strings but rather
for a float on the stroke which is an
error stroke you'll want to move closer
to the fingerboard and tilt the bow
angle forward giving playing only with
the edge of there this is the kind of
versatility you want to achieve one
plane to attain different strokes you
need to be able to be flexible with the
fingers and they all need to kind of
curl I keep the index finger wrapped
around as well as the middle finger and
the ring finger I also try to achieve
the bow deeply set into the hand to give
to optimize the amount of weight I have
being transferred into the bow hold any
time you tense up any muscle in the body
is especially in the bow arm you'll
immediately notice it change and sound
it'll become tighter and more strident
so remain as relaxed as possible and
keep the keep the fingers curled and
flexible the second point is keeping a
natural spacing in your bow hold you
don't want to grip the bow like this and
create tension
my unnatural amount of spacing in the
hand that will immediately block up on
this nice rich beautiful sound that
you're trying to get and also it will
limit the amount of motion that you'll
try to be getting out of your bow stroke
for example if you want to do a spicata
stroke it's not I don't think going to
happen like this you need the fingers to
be flexible and your dirt in order to go
back and forth like this now for the
pinky there's many different approaches
to that as well for starters I would try
to keep it on top giving you the ability
to shift the weight at any moment for
string crossings this it comes in most
handy for example changing from G to the
D to the a to the e this is permitted by
the pinky being on top however if you
find a different solution by keeping it
off or sometimes great violinist even
they'll keep the pinkie off and
sometimes even the third finger off of
the stick if that works for you then by
all means go ahead and do that so thank
you for tuning in and as always please
send your comments to Emil Altschuler @
gmail.com and I hope to see you again
soon